All right, so course, format.
Basically, in this course, like I said,
you're gonna be following along with me as
I go through these topics in real time.
But like I said, there's no pressure for
you to keep up with me.
Not that I'm going to be going fast or
not that you can't keep up.
It's just there's no pressure because most
of the stuff is gonna be in this actual
curriculum here that you can copy and
paste.
And if not, we actually do
have a repo here at my GitHub.
So hendrixer/nextjs-course-app, you can go
there, you can actually go to the repo.
And what I've done there is for
every major checkpoint,
I've made a branch that
you can check out too.
So for instance, all throughout the
lesson, you'll see something like this at
the end of the lesson that says, hey,
you can check out to this branch.
And you'll be at
the completion of this lesson.
So this this is what the lesson
looks like when you're done.
So if you didn't feel like
following along, it was too much,
or for whatever reason,
if I'm going too fast.
You can always check out to that
branch and catch up to where we are or
whenever you would like to.
So that's there for you as well.
But we will just be starting from scratch
this repost here as a reference for
you to catch up.
And as far as what we're going
to be making in this course,
because I like to tie in learning
something with actually making something.
Even if it is trivial, I still think
it just solidifies some of the topics.
We'll be building a SaaS note taking app
basically, it's very simple and I kept it
simple on purpose because I really want
to focus on the Next.js specifics.
And not have some really complicated
feature-heavy application get in the way.
I feel like we've all know
how to build apps before.
So let's just keep it simple and
focus on the actual framework.
So that's what I'll do.
And that's actually my philosophy
throughout this whole course is just try
to keep everything else out of the way and
focus on the Next.js specifics.
So you'll see me glossing over
things that are required by Next.js,
because I don't think it's
important to learn Next.js.
But obviously, I'm here to answer any
questions, if you feel like I'm glossing
over something that's important,
you can ask a question.
And I will be,
interacting with you all to ask, hey,
do you want me to go back and
talk about this a little bit?
But I can assure you that you'll get what
you need from this course when it comes to
Next.js.
Here's a little legend that you'll might
want to check out because I'll have like
these little asides or these little
quotes all throughout the curriculum.
So if you see something like this,
it's a tip.
I'll usually say something like,
hey, I recommend using this or
doing that or go check this out.
So you'll see this sometimes.
A reminder is when I'm just reminding you
like, hey, by the way, remember,
this is how this works, so don't forget.
Careful, you might see me warn you like,
don't do this for this reason,
or be careful this might happen.
We talked about the lesson branch,
check out the git branch name.
Summary is sometimes I'll just have
a really long explanation about
something and if you don't feel like
reading it, you'll just see a TLDR here,
too long didn't read.
And then extra wow first typo,
I just noticed that.
And then the next thing is
you'll see some extra info here.
So sometimes I will deep dive on stuff,
because I just can't help it,
and I think it'll be very helpful.
So you'll see me just take off and
deep dive on a topic for
a little bit that I think people
would like to know about.
Let's go into the setup.
So what are you gonna need
to actually do this course?
This is it.
You really only need
Node.js greater than 10.
I'm using version 12.8, I believe, so
you can go to that version if you'd like.
But I believe anything
over 10 should be fine.
So you should be good there.
I like to use nvm or
n to manage my node versions.
So I recommend you do that as well.
You can easily switch between them and,
you avoid the whole,
permissions issue when you install
node globally and things like that.
And then you also need npm or yarn.
npm comes installed with node,
so you should have that already.
I'm going to be using yarn.
I don't think yarn is
specifically better than npm,
is that I switched a long time ago.
And now that npm is better,
I just don't feel like switching back.
That's it,
I think they're both great tools.
You can use whichever one you want,
but I'm just going to use yarn here.
So that's pretty much what I'll be doing,
and that's it.
You don't really need anything else for
this specific course.
So now what are you gonna learn?
Yeah, you're learn Next.js.
But what specifically because there's
a lot there's so much into Next.js.
And I don't say that to say that
it's a complicated framework.
It's definitely a complicated
framework to make but because of that,
it's easy for us to use.
And there was so much that went into me
deciding what I wanted to teach in this
course because, like I said,
I know this framework from so many angles.
From integrating with it on lower
level primitives to using it,
building static sites.
So I kinda know it from all angles,
so I'm always trying to pick and
choose which will be best to talk about.
So here's pretty much what I
decided to cover in this course.
And again,
this is not like a strict list of
these are only things I'm going to
be talking about because I'm not.
If you know me,
I'm gonna go off on tangents and
just ramble about things that I think
would be really cool and I'll do that.
But as far as like the text and
the stuff that you see on this
website it's mostly gonna follow this.
So, what is Next.js?
How does Next.js compared to React?
When would you use it, getting started,
creating pages and components.
Things like SEO static and dynamic
routing, navigating, styling, API routes.
Yep, API routes, fetching data,
prerendering, deployment,
and a little bit of JAMstack stuff.
So it's a lot, going to happen they
were just going to see that it's just so
delightful to work with Next.js,
they make all of this pretty easy.
So I'm super excited to just have
everyone know how to use it.
Any questions on that with the Next.js and
what we're gonna learn?
Is there something specific that
someone was looking forward to learning
that I didn't say here?
>> Think just a lot of people
are using Gatsby it sounds like so.
>> Lot of people using Gatsby.
>> You'll get into that later.
>> Yeah, definitely get into Gatsby
because as much as I use Next.js,
I also use a lot of Gatsby, and I work
with the Gatsby team on integrations.
The same way I work with the Next team.
So I feel pretty versed in Gatsby as well.
In fact, this website is built on Gatsby.
So yeah, I can talk about Gatsby
as much as you all need me to.